BD-2792: Hidden doc for list-unsubscribe updates (#6838)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_hidden/private_betas/list-unsubscribe_header.md

---
nav_title: List-Unsubscribe Header
article_title: List-Unsubscribe Header
permalink: /list-unsubscribe/
hidden: true
---

## List-unsubscribe header

> Using a list-unsubscribe header allows your recipients to unsubscribe easily from marketing emails by displaying an **Unsubscribe** button within the mailbox UI, and is not a part of the message body itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a list-unsubscribe header allows your recipients to unsubscribe easily from marketing emails by displaying an **Unsubscribe** button within the mailbox UI that isn't a part of the message body itself.
```

> Using a list-unsubscribe header allows your recipients to unsubscribe easily from marketing emails by displaying an **Unsubscribe** button within the mailbox UI, and is not a part of the message body itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a list-unsubscribe header allows your recipients to unsubscribe easily from marketing emails by displaying an **Unsubscribe** button within the mailbox UI, not the message body itself.
```
```suggestion
Using a list-unsubscribe header allows your recipients to unsubscribe easily from marketing emails by displaying an **Unsubscribe** button within the mailbox UI, and not the message body.
```
Or something similar!

When Braze receives a list-unsubscribe request from a user, this user's global email subscription state is set to unsubscribed. If there isn't a match, Braze will not process this request.

![Option to automatically include a list-unsubscribe header for emails sent to subscribed or opted-in users.]({% image_buster /assets/img/email_settings/email_unsubscribe_header.png %}){: style="max-width:80%;"}

### Customizing the list-unsubscribe header

#### Requirements

If you're sending emails using your own custom unsubscribe functionality, you must meet the following requirements to make sure the one-click unsubscribe URL that you set up is in accordance with RFC 8058.

* The URL must be able to handle unsubscribe POST requests
* The URL must be HTTPS
* The URL must not return an HTTPS redirect. One-click unsubscribe links that go to a landing or other type of web page don't comply with RFC 8058
* The message must have a valid DKIM signature

> Select **Custom list-unsubscribe header** to add your own configured one-click unsubscribe endpoint, and optionally "mailto:". Braze requires an input for URL to support a custom list-unsubscribe header since the one-click unsubscribe HTTP is a requirement from Yahoo/Gmail for bulk senders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select **Custom list-unsubscribe header** to add your own configured one-click unsubscribe endpoint, and an optional "mailto:". Braze requires an input for URL to support a custom list-unsubscribe header since the one-click unsubscribe HTTP is a requirement from Yahoo/Gmail for bulk senders.
```
